# COEQWAL

### COEQWAL Website   
### [(Old) COEQWAL Repository](https://github.com/maramahmedd/coeqwal)    
### [(New) COEQWAL Repository](https://github.com/canruso/COEQWAL_V3)     

### Honored with the "Data Discovery Insights" award at the Data Discovery Symposium for clarity, structure, and visual storytelling.

The COEQWAL team is providing tools to tackle a critical problem in California: how to manage water resources in a way that is equitable for people, food production, and the environment, in a way that is resilient to threats such as those brought on by climate change. The goal of our project is to show how water is allocated and where it gets distributed, with the potential to support more informed water policy decisions in the future. For this goal, we developed a data science-based workflow to process complex hydrological data. In particular, we developed a library of methods to evaluate the costs and benefits of alternative management strategies, along with visualization tools, including a powerful interactive dashboard that greatly simplifies the task of data analysis and makes it easier to understand. We focused on turning the data into stories that can be shared with a wide range of stakeholders and are applying for the data visualization award for our work utilizing data science to address critical societal, environmental, and economic problems. We applied these methods to evaluate a library of different scenarios. For our poster, we illustrate this by plotting three of these different scenarios: climate change (13), groundwater pumping restrictions (15), and minimum flow requirements (18) against a baseline scenario (11). The baseline scenario serves as a reference point that allows us to easily compare the changes. It reflects current operations under the historical climate and hydrology in combination with the occasional relaxation of salinity and flow regulations following the Temporary Urgency Change Petition (TUCP) process during extreme drought conditions. We focused on three main types of variables in our plots: storage, deliveries, and flows. Storage variables measure water levels in reservoirs, delivery variables represent water deliveries through the State Water Project (SWP) and Central Valley Project (CVP) to different contractor groups, and flow variables track the movement of water through rivers and canals. Using these variables, we can see where water moves under different scenarios and water year types.
